# H3K27me3
Trimethylation of histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3) may be recruited by repressive Polycomb complexes to mediate gene silencing, which is critical for maintaining embryonic stem cell pluripotency and differentiation. However, the roles of aberrant H3K27me3 patterns in tumorigenesis are not fully understood. Here, we discovered that grand silencer domains (breadth > 50kb) for H3K27me3 were significantly associated with epithelial cell differentiation and exhibited high gene essentiality and conservation in human esophageal epithelial cells. These grand H3K27me3 domains exhibited high modification signals involved in gene silencing, and preferentially occupied the entirety of topologically associating domains and interact with each other. We found that widespread loss of the grand H3K27me3 domains in of esophageal squamous cell carcinomas (ESCC) were enriched in genes involved in epithelium and endothelium differentiation, which were significantly associated with overexpression with increase of active modifications of H3K4me3, H3K4me1 and H3K27ac marks, as well as DNA hypermethylation in the gene bodies. Total 208 activated genes with loss of grand H3K27me3 domains in ESCC were identified, where the higher expression and mutation of T-Box Transcription Factor 20 (TBX20) were associated with worse patients’ outcomes. Our results showed that knockdown of TBX20 may led to a striking defect in esophageal cancer cell growth and carcinogenesis related pathway, including cell cycle and homologous recombination. Together, our results reveal that loss of grand H3K27me3 domains represent a catalogue of remarkable activating regulators involved in carcinogenesis.
